Hi everybody.
As I said in my State
of the Union address,
we live in a time of
extraordinary change -
change that's affecting the
way we live and the way we work.
New technology replaces
any job where work
can be automated.
Workers need more
skills to get ahead.
These changes aren't new,
and they're only going
to accelerate.
So the question we have
to ask ourselves is,
"How can we make sure
everyone has a fair shot at
success in this
new economy?"
The answer to that question
starts with education.
That's why my Administration
has encouraged states to
raise standards.
We've cut the digital divide
in our classrooms in half.
We've worked with Congress
to pass a bipartisan bill to
set the expectation that
every student should
graduate from high school
ready for college
and a good job.
And thanks to the hard work
of students, teachers,
and parents across
the country,
our high school graduation
rate is at an all-time high.
Now we have to make sure all
our kids are equipped for
the jobs of the future -
which means not just being
able to work with computers,
but developing the
analytical and coding skills
to power our innovation economy.
Today's auto mechanics
aren't just sliding under
cars to change the oil;
they're working on machines
that run on as many as 100
million lines of code.
That's 100 times more
than the Space Shuttle.
Nurses are analyzing data
and managing electronic
health records.
Machinists are writing
computer programs.
And workers of all kinds
need to be able to figure
out how to break a big
problem into smaller pieces
and identify the right
steps to solve it.
In the new economy, computer
science isn't an optional
skill - it's a basic skill,
right along
with the three "Rs."
Nine out of ten parents
want it taught at their
children's schools.
Yet right now, only about a
quarter of our K through 12
schools offer
computer science.
Twenty-two states don't even
allow it to count
toward a diploma.
So I've got a plan to help
make sure all our kids get
an opportunity to learn
computer science,
especially girls
and minorities.
It's called Computer
Science For All.
And it means just what it
says - giving every student
in America an early start at
learning the skills they'll
need to get ahead
in the new economy.
First, I'm asking Congress
to provide funding over the
next three years so that
our elementary, middle,
and high schools can provide
opportunities to learn
computer science
for all students.
Second, starting this year,
we're leveraging existing
resources at the National
Science Foundation and the
Corporation for National and
Community Service to train
more great teachers
for these courses.
And third, I'll be pulling
together governors, mayors,
business leaders, and tech
entrepreneurs to join the
growing bipartisan movement
around this cause.
Americans of all kinds are getting involved, from
students teaching eachother to code, to teachers
adding programming
to their classes.
And just today, states
like Delaware and Hawaii,
companies like Google
and SalesForce,
and organizations like
Code.org have made
commitments to help more of
our kids learn these skills.
That's what this is all
about - each of us doing our
part to make sure all our
young people can compete in
a high-tech, global economy.
They're the ones who will
make sure America keeps
growing, keeps innovating,
and keeps leading the world
in the years ahead.
And they're the reason I've
never been more confident
about our future.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.